Hello English learners. Welcome back to another podcast with us here at English Pod. My name is Marco.
I'm Erica. And today we're going to be looking at a very popular topic. Something that everyone has to do at least once in their life.
That's right. We're talking about mobile phones and getting a mobile phone plan.
Right. So you have a mobile phone, you need to get a plan or you need to do something in order to make it work, right?
Yes. And in this lesson, we're going to learn some language to help you do that.
All right. So let's start with the language on vocabulary preview.
Very cablory preview. In the dialogue, we're going to compare two types of mobile phone plans.
The prepaid plan and the monthly rate plan. Okay. So we have two types of plans prepaid.
prepaid plan. Okay. A prepaid plan. Well, a prepaid plan. Basically, just like the name suggests,
you pay before you use the minutes. So you maybe you have to buy a card and then you can use maybe 20 minutes or 30 minutes or 100 minutes.
Exactly. And then when you run out of money or you use all your minutes, you can buy another card and like that.
Yeah. But the monthly rate plan is different. So the monthly rate plan you have to pay each month.
Right. At the end of each month. At the end of each month. And what do you pay?
You pay for everything you used. You get a bill at the end of the month. Exactly. Okay. So very
interesting. These are the ways that mobile phone plans usually work. And well, now it's time for us to
listen to this dialogue for the first time. We are going to be listening as a shopper is looking to
buy maybe a mobile phone or get a mobile phone plan.
Yeah. I just moved here and I'd like to activate my cell phone. And I'm not sure if I should go with a
prepaid plan or a monthly rate plan. I see. Well, can I have a look at your phone?
And fortunately, this phone can't be using the US. It's not compatible with our 3G network.
What? Really? I don't really want to have to buy a new phone. Well, you're lucky. You see,
if you sign up for our 3-year plan, we'll throw in a handset for free. Really? What's the cash?
There's no cash. You just choose a plan, sign a 3-year contract. And that's it. Actually,
we're running a special promotion right now. And we're giving away a blackberry curve with our
special mega value for $40 plan. So what does this plan include? Well, you get 900 anytime minutes
and you can also enjoy free mobile-to-mobile calling to other tell-mobile clients.
A thousand text messages per month and unlimited evening and weekend minutes. Oh, and we also offer
a roll-over option. Wow. All this for $40 per month. That's right. Plus the activation fee and
the emergency services fee, the monthly service fee and, oh, and any charges for extra minutes and.
What sounds like a lot more than $40 doesn't it? This is very common. They always say that
it's a very low price and they always have these hidden charges, right? Yep, you're right. So why don't
we look at some of the language they were using in the dialogue now in language takeaway?
Language takeaway. All right, a language takeaway today. We're going to be looking at
for very basic words that are used in this whole mobile phone context and the first one is
activate. To activate my cell phone. All right. So you have to activate your cell phone.
That's right. You have to make the cell phone work. So basically you make it work. Now can you only
apply this to mobile phones? No, there's many things that you must activate to make work. For example,
you must activate your computer software. Okay, or maybe you have to activate your credit card.
Or activate your bank account. So usually you do this for the first time before you start using it.
Yeah, like imagine your mobile phone is sleeping, right? And you need to activate it to make it
start working. But you only do it once. Right. Only once. Okay. We talk about mobile phone or we say
the cell phone, but this also has a specific name, right? That's right. A hand set. Hand set.
So the device, the phone, you can call it a hand set. Exactly. All right. A very easy word,
but it's kind of a little bit more technical. Yeah. Now, one of the things they were talking about
with this monthly rate plan was a roll-over option. Roll-over. A roll-over option.
So what is this roll-over option about? Well, okay. I'll give you an example. Let's say you have
500 minutes each month. And you only use four of them in this month.
100 of those minutes can roll-over. It can move over to the next month. So now you have 600 minutes.
So basically the minutes that you don't use, you can still use the following month. Right.
Okay. So that's a roll-over plan. And we might recognize the verb to roll-over, right?
Right. So it's very similar to physically move from one place to another.
Yep. All right. Roll-over. And now in the end, we talked about many types of fees. That's right.
Activation fee. Okay. Or we also had emergency services fee. So what is a fee? A fee is the amount
of money you must pay for a service. Okay. So this is important. It's for a service.
Yeah. You can't pay a fee for something you can touch. Okay. So if I go to the store, I don't say
what is the fee of this bottle of water. Right. What's the fee for filling this bottle of water?
Okay. So for a service. Yes, for an action. All right. Very good. So I think it's time for us to
listen to this dialogue again. We're going to slow it down because it was a little bit fast.
And then we'll come back and look at some great phrases.
Hi there. Can I help you? Yeah. I've just moved here and I'd like to activate my cell phone.
And I'm not sure if I should go with a prepaid plan or a monthly rate plan. I see.
Well, can I have a look at your phone? Unfortunately, this phone can't be used in the US.
It's not compatible with our 3G network. What? Really? I don't really want to have to buy
a new phone. Well, you're in luck. You see, if you sign up for our three-year plan,
we'll throw in a handset for free. Really? What's the catch? There's no catch. You just choose a plan.
Sign a three-year contract. And that's it. Actually, we're running a special promotion right now.
And we're giving away a blackberry curve with our special mega value $40 plan.
So what does this plan include? Well, you get 900 any time minutes. And you can also
enjoy free mobile and mobile calling to other tell mobile clients 1000 text messages per month.
And unlimited evening and weekend minutes. Oh, and we also offer a roll-over option.
Wow, all this for $40 per month. That's right. Plus the activation fee, the emergency
services fee, the monthly service fee, oh, and any charges for extra minutes. And
well, you know, there are some interesting phrases in this dialogue. And you know, a lot of
them can be used when you're talking about an negotiation or a contract or a deal. All right,
great. So let's take a look at these phrases in fluency builder fluency builder. Okay, the first phrase
that we have on fluency builder today was the problem that she had with her mobile phone was that
it wasn't compatible with a 3G network. Okay, to be compatible with. To be compatible with.
To be compatible with. Now this word compatible means that it works well with something else.
Exactly. Now there's a lot of things that you can use this phrase compatible with. Together with,
you know, people things. So why don't we hear a few examples now? Example one.
Our application is compatible with most smart phones.
Example two. My roommate and I are just not compatible. All she ever does is study.
And I like to say a blatant party. Example three.
I'm sorry, your computer is not compatible with our software. It's too old.
Okay, great example. So compatible with very clear end. It's very useful. That's right. Now what about the
next phrase? Well, you know, the the girl was hearing about all of these great things that are
included in the contract. And she asked what's the catch? What's the catch? What's the catch?
So she was asking for the catch. What is the catch? Well, good thing you ask. A catch is something
negative. Something that's hidden that makes the deal seem not so great. Okay, so if somebody
offers me a new car, that's it. You can have this new for free. Okay. Well, that seems too good to be true.
So what is the catch? The catch is that I can only drive it at night. Okay. That's kind of annoying.
Right. So that's the catch. There's like a condition. Yep. Now she asked about the catch.
And what she said, well, there's no catch. You know, it's you just signed the contract. And then the
salesman told the lady that she is in luck. You're in luck to be in luck. Well, okay. I think that
I think we can really understand the meaning, right? When you're in luck, something lucky has happened.
Right. You're having good fortune. But how do we use it? So maybe you're looking for a very special
bottle of wine for dinner tonight. Yep. It's very rare. Okay. And you go into this little store and
all of a sudden you're in luck. You found it there. Exactly. Okay. This phrase is actually most common
ly used in the second person. Your in luck. You are in luck. You are in luck tonight. Yeah. And it
usually when someone asks you for something, then you say you're in luck. You're in luck. I have it.
Or you're in luck. I have the very last one. Exactly. All right. And now to end a fluency
builder, we have one more phrase. And so it was when the salesman said, we'll throw in a handset for
all right. To throw something in. So if you signs the contract, he will throw in a free handset.
It means to include something for free. Okay. So you can say, if you buy this house, I'll throw in
the dog, the dog for free. Right. So to throw into include for free. Right. Okay. All right.
So great phrases. And I think we understand them now. So let's listen to this dialogue for the very
last time. Yeah. I just moved here and I'd like to activate my cell phone. And I'm not sure
if I should go with a prepaid plan or a monthly rate plan. I see. Well, can I have a look at your phone?
Unfortunately, this phone can't be using the US. It's not compatible with our 3G network.
What? Really? I don't really want to have to buy a new phone. Well, you're lucky. You see,
if you sign up for our 3-year plan, we'll throw in a handset for free. Really? What's the cash?
There's no cash. You just choose a plan, sign a 3-year contract. And that's it. Actually,
we're running a special promotion right now. And we're giving away a blackberry curve with
our special mega value, $40 plan. So what does this plan include? Well, you get 900 anytime
minutes and you can also enjoy free mobile-to-mobile calling to other tell-mobile clients.
A thousand text messages per month and unlimited evening and weekend minutes. Oh, and we also offer
a roll-over option. Wow. All this for $40 per month. That's right. Plus, the activation fee and
the emergency services fee, the monthly service fee and, oh, and any charges for extra minutes and
mobile phones. This is very common in the United States, right? These monthly plans.
Yeah, most places where I have lived. It's much more common to pay as you go, right, to have a prepaid plan.
But in the States, almost everyone goes with the monthly plan. Maybe it's because, in order
to have a monthly plan, you need to have a credit card. You might be on to something. Right?
Yeah. So if you don't have a credit card or maybe you're 18, you can't get a monthly plan.
So you got to do this prepaid plan. Yeah. You know, another interesting thing that I've noticed
when living in different countries and seeing mobile phone habits, Americans and North Americans
respond very differently to a ringing mobile phone and other people do. How so?
For example, if I was in a meeting in America and my phone rang and I answered it,
people might think that I was very rude to answer the phone in a meeting. But, you know,
here when we're living in China, it's totally normal. It's, you know, everyone does it. That's
the polite thing to do. Answer your phone. Right. And I think that's absolutely true. And maybe
it's because in North America, you have this voicemail option for your mobile phone. Yeah,
and everyone has it. Everyone has it. So if it's something very important, then the person will
leave you a voicemail message and then you will know what it's about or you can call them back.
But here, I guess, or in other countries, maybe they don't have that option. So
they need to answer every call. Yeah. It's, it's interesting. An interesting sort of cultural
difference in the way we use our phones. But what about listeners in your country? Do you
add to the phone immediately or do you let it ring? Right. Or maybe do you see who's calling
and maybe just not answering? Yeah. Screen your calls. Screen a call. So come to our website,
EnglishPod.com. Let us know what your mobile phone habits are. And also, if you have any
questions or doubts. Yeah. Marco and I are always there to answer your questions. So until next
time, thanks for listening and goodbye. Bye.